README.md, before:

# readme-sync

![CI](https://github.com/zheland/readme-sync/workflows/CI/badge.svg)
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/readme-sync.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/readme-sync)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/readme-sync/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/readme-sync)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/readme-sync)](https://github.com/zheland/readme-sync/#license)
[![Rust Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.40+-lightgray.svg)](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/01/30/Rust-1.40.0.html)

The `readme-sync` crate makes it easy to add an integration test
that checks that your readme and crate documentation are synchronized.

## About

This crate provides several abstractions for readme and documentation front page content
as well as multiple readme and documentation parsing and transformation functions.
With them, readme and documentation can be converted
to a set of markup nodes that are expected to be the same.
Their equality can be checked with the `assert_sync` function,
which also provides useful diagnostic messages about the differences found.

Documentation parser accepts not only inner doc-comments (`//!`) but also
inner doc-attributes (`#[!cfg(...)]` and `#[!cfg_attr(...)]`).
This is useful when some doc-tests require certain features to compile and run.

## Usage

First, add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dev-dependencies]
readme-sync = "0.2.0"
```

Then add an integration test using the necessary readme and docs modifiers,
and check their synchronization using the `assert_sync` function.

The example below is used to test the synchronization
of the readme and documentation of this crate.
You can copy it and follow the diagnostic messages
to adjust the modifiers used and to correct your readme and documentation.

```rust
#[cfg(test)]
#[test]
fn readme_sync_test() {
    use readme_sync::{assert_sync, CMarkDocs, CMarkReadme, Config, Package};

    let package = Package::from_path(env!("CARGO_MANIFEST_DIR").into()).unwrap();
    let config = Config::from_package_docs_rs_features(&package);
    let readme = CMarkReadme::from_package(&package).unwrap();
    let docs = CMarkDocs::from_package_and_config(&package, &config).unwrap();

    let readme = readme
        .remove_badges_paragraph()
        .remove_documentation_section()
        .remove_codeblock_tag("no_sync")
        .disallow_absolute_repository_blob_links()
        .unwrap()
        .use_absolute_repository_blob_urls()
        .unwrap();

    let docs = docs
        .increment_heading_levels()
        .add_package_title()
        .remove_codeblock_rust_test_tags()
        .use_default_codeblock_rust_tag()
        .remove_hidden_rust_code()
        .disallow_absolute_package_docs_links()
        .unwrap()
        .use_absolute_package_docs_urls()
        .unwrap();

    assert_sync(&readme, &docs);
}
```

Note that both `cargo build` and `cargo test` enable features from dev-dependencies,
so if you want to test your crate without them (for example in `no_std` environment)
you can use `readme-sync` with `default-features = false`.
See [this](#how-to-prevent-readme-sync-dependency-features-enabled-for-dependencies-of-my-crate)
FAQ section for more details.

## Documentation

[API Documentation]

## Feature Flags

- `codemap` (enabled by default): Enables `codemap` dependency and required
  for `assert_sync` and other diagnostic functions.
- `codemap-diagnostic` (enabled by default): Enables `codemap-diagnostic` dependency
  and required for `assert_sync` and other diagnostic functions.
- `glob` (enabled by default): Enables `gloc` dependency and required
  for badges detection and methods like `CMarkReadme::remove_badges_paragraph`.
- `platforms`: Enables `platforms` dependency and method `Config::with_target_arch_os_env`.
- `proc-macro2` (enabled by default): Enables `proc-macro2` dependency
  with `span-locations` feature that allows the crate
  to show the errors location for source Rust files.
- `pulldown-cmark` (enabled by default): Enables `pulldown-cmark` dependency
  and required for almost everything except manifest
  and documentation parsing and some utility functions.
- `serde` (enabled by default): Enables `serde` dependency
  and required for manifest deserializing.
- `syn` (enabled by default): Enables `syn` dependency and required for documentation parsing.
- `thiserror` (enabled by default): Enables `thiserror` dependency
  and required by all functions and methods that can return errors.
- `toml` (enabled by default): Enables `toml` dependency and required for manifest parsing.

## Other crates

- [`cargo-sync-readme`]: generates readme section from documentation.
  It does not support doc-attributes and does not provide diagnostics for differences found.
  But if you just need to synchronize readme and docs text
  or check if they are synchronized it might be a better choice.
- [`version-sync`]: crate makes it easy to add an integration test that checks
  that README.md and documentation are updated when the crate version changes.

## FAQ

### Why is the example integration test so long and there is no function that would do it all at once?

Readme and documentation transformations are very different
between different crates and the API of this crate is not yet stabilized.

At the moment, however, it supports extensive customization.
You can specify the paths to readme and docs, their contents,
the features and transformations used, and use your own transformations.

So any feedback is welcome!

### Why use `syn` instead of just parsing documentation comments?

Because of `cfg` and `cfg_attr` that are useful for documentation tests
that require some specific features and can only be compiled with them.

### Why Markdown instead of text comparison?

It simplifies the Markdown transformations.
Transformations are necessary,
because of some differences between readme content and documentation front page
including: the presence of a crate name, different heading levels,
the presence of badges, different relative url root, etc.

### Why are all dependencies optional?

By default, Rust compiler enables features from dev-dependencies for normal dependencies
for commands like `cargo test` and `cargo build`.
As a result, the features used by dev-dependencies are implicitly enabled during testing.
Because all `readme-sync` dependencies are optional,
you can easily protect your crate from implicitly enabled common features when testing.

See [rust-lang/cargo#7916](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/7916) for more details.

### How to prevent `readme-sync` dependency features enabled for dependencies of my crate.

If you use nightly Rust you can simply use `-Z features=dev_dep` flags.

Or, in any Rust release, you can disable all `readme-sync` dependencies with:
```toml
[dev-dependencies.readme-sync]
version = "0.2.0"
default-features = false
```

This will help you avoid feature injection from dev-dependencies.

In order to use `readme-sync` functionality in this case,
you need to add a feature that reenables `readme-sync` default features
and can be used to run readme synchronization integration tests:
```toml,no_sync
[features]
test-readme-sync = ["readme-sync/default"]
```

Then you need to add `test-readme-sync` conditional check to your readme sync integration test:
```rust
#[cfg(all(test, feature = "test-readme-sync"))]
//    ^^^^    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#[test]
fn readme_sync_test() {
    // ...
}
```

And run it with
```bash
cargo test --features "test-readme-sync"
```

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0
  ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  [https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0))
- MIT license
  ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or
  [https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT))

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license,
shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.

[API Documentation]: https://docs.rs/readme-sync
[`cargo-sync-readme`]: https://crates.io/crates/cargo-sync-readme
[`version-sync`]: https://crates.io/crates/version-sync

Commit message:

Add link address map method for CMarkDocs
Related to #1

README.md, after:

# readme-sync

![CI](https://github.com/zheland/readme-sync/workflows/CI/badge.svg)
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/readme-sync.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/readme-sync)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/readme-sync/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/readme-sync)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/readme-sync)](https://github.com/zheland/readme-sync/#license)
[![Rust Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.40+-lightgray.svg)](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/01/30/Rust-1.40.0.html)

The `readme-sync` crate makes it easy to add an integration test
that checks that your readme and crate documentation are synchronized.

## About

This crate provides several abstractions for readme and documentation front page content
as well as multiple readme and documentation parsing and transformation functions.
With them, readme and documentation can be converted
to a set of markup nodes that are expected to be the same.
Their equality can be checked with the `assert_sync` function,
which also provides useful diagnostic messages about the differences found.

Documentation parser accepts not only inner doc-comments (`//!`) but also
inner doc-attributes (`#[!cfg(...)]` and `#[!cfg_attr(...)]`).
This is useful when some doc-tests require certain features to compile and run.

## Usage

First, add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dev-dependencies]
readme-sync = "0.2.0"
```

Then add an integration test using the necessary readme and docs modifiers,
and check their synchronization using the `assert_sync` function.

The example below is used to test the synchronization
of the readme and documentation of this crate.
You can copy it and follow the diagnostic messages
to adjust the modifiers used and to correct your readme and documentation.

```rust
#[cfg(test)]
#[test]
fn readme_sync_test() {
    use readme_sync::{assert_sync, CMarkDocs, CMarkReadme, Config, Package};
    use std::borrow::ToOwned;

    let package = Package::from_path(env!("CARGO_MANIFEST_DIR").into()).unwrap();
    let config = Config::from_package_docs_rs_features(&package);
    let readme = CMarkReadme::from_package(&package).unwrap();
    let docs = CMarkDocs::from_package_and_config(&package, &config).unwrap();

    let readme = readme
        .remove_badges_paragraph()
        .remove_documentation_section()
        .remove_codeblock_tag("no_sync")
        .disallow_absolute_repository_blob_links()
        .unwrap()
        .use_absolute_repository_blob_urls()
        .unwrap();

    let docs = docs
        .increment_heading_levels()
        .add_package_title()
        .remove_codeblock_rust_test_tags()
        .use_default_codeblock_rust_tag()
        .remove_hidden_rust_code()
        .map_links(
            |link| match link {
                "CMarkDocs::map_links" => "struct.CMarkDocs.html#method.map_links".into(),
                link => link.into(),
            },
            "workaround for intra-doc links",
        )
        .disallow_absolute_package_docs_links()
        .unwrap()
        .use_absolute_package_docs_urls()
        .unwrap();

    assert_sync(&readme, &docs);
}
```

Note that both `cargo build` and `cargo test` enable features from dev-dependencies,
so if you want to test your crate without them (for example in `no_std` environment)
you can use `readme-sync` with `default-features = false`.
See [this](#how-to-prevent-readme-sync-dependency-features-enabled-for-dependencies-of-my-crate)
FAQ section for more details.

## Documentation

[API Documentation]

## Feature Flags

- `codemap` (enabled by default): Enables `codemap` dependency and required
  for `assert_sync` and other diagnostic functions.
- `codemap-diagnostic` (enabled by default): Enables `codemap-diagnostic` dependency
  and required for `assert_sync` and other diagnostic functions.
- `glob` (enabled by default): Enables `gloc` dependency and required
  for badges detection and methods like `CMarkReadme::remove_badges_paragraph`.
- `platforms`: Enables `platforms` dependency and method `Config::with_target_arch_os_env`.
- `proc-macro2` (enabled by default): Enables `proc-macro2` dependency
  with `span-locations` feature that allows the crate
  to show the errors location for source Rust files.
- `pulldown-cmark` (enabled by default): Enables `pulldown-cmark` dependency
  and required for almost everything except manifest
  and documentation parsing and some utility functions.
- `serde` (enabled by default): Enables `serde` dependency
  and required for manifest deserializing.
- `syn` (enabled by default): Enables `syn` dependency and required for documentation parsing.
- `thiserror` (enabled by default): Enables `thiserror` dependency
  and required by all functions and methods that can return errors.
- `toml` (enabled by default): Enables `toml` dependency and required for manifest parsing.

## Other crates

- [`cargo-sync-readme`]: generates readme section from documentation.
  It does not support doc-attributes and does not provide diagnostics for differences found.
  But if you just need to synchronize readme and docs text
  or check if they are synchronized it might be a better choice.
- [`version-sync`]: crate makes it easy to add an integration test that checks
  that README.md and documentation are updated when the crate version changes.

## FAQ

### Are rust intra-doc links supported?

Currently intra-doc link resolution is not supported.
References to structures in the documentation can be changed with [`CMarkDocs::map_links`].
The pulldown cmark also requires the link address to be specified.

### Why is the example integration test so long and there is no function that would do it all at once?

Readme and documentation transformations are very different
between different crates and the API of this crate is not yet stabilized.

At the moment, however, it supports extensive customization.
You can specify the paths to readme and docs, their contents,
the features and transformations used, and use your own transformations.

So any feedback is welcome!

### Why use `syn` instead of just parsing documentation comments?

Because of `cfg` and `cfg_attr` that are useful for documentation tests
that require some specific features and can only be compiled with them.

### Why Markdown instead of text comparison?

It simplifies the Markdown transformations.
Transformations are necessary,
because of some differences between readme content and documentation front page
including: the presence of a crate name, different heading levels,
the presence of badges, different relative url root, etc.

### Why are all dependencies optional?

By default, Rust compiler enables features from dev-dependencies for normal dependencies
for commands like `cargo test` and `cargo build`.
As a result, the features used by dev-dependencies are implicitly enabled during testing.
Because all `readme-sync` dependencies are optional,
you can easily protect your crate from implicitly enabled common features when testing.

See [rust-lang/cargo#7916](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/7916) for more details.

### How to prevent `readme-sync` dependency features enabled for dependencies of my crate.

If you use nightly Rust you can simply use `-Z features=dev_dep` flags.

Or, in any Rust release, you can disable all `readme-sync` dependencies with:
```toml
[dev-dependencies.readme-sync]
version = "0.2.0"
default-features = false
```

This will help you avoid feature injection from dev-dependencies.

In order to use `readme-sync` functionality in this case,
you need to add a feature that reenables `readme-sync` default features
and can be used to run readme synchronization integration tests:
```toml,no_sync
[features]
test-readme-sync = ["readme-sync/default"]
```

Then you need to add `test-readme-sync` conditional check to your readme sync integration test:
```rust
#[cfg(all(test, feature = "test-readme-sync"))]
//    ^^^^    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#[test]
fn readme_sync_test() {
    // ...
}
```

And run it with
```bash
cargo test --features "test-readme-sync"
```

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0
  ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  [https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0))
- MIT license
  ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or
  [https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT))

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license,
shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.

[`CMarkDocs::map_links`]: https://docs.rs/readme-sync/*/readme_sync/struct.CMarkDocs.html#method.map_links
[API Documentation]: https://docs.rs/readme-sync
[`cargo-sync-readme`]: https://crates.io/crates/cargo-sync-readme
[`version-sync`]: https://crates.io/crates/version-sync
